## Chapter 6: Complications and Cataclysms
--- 

As the heroes of the story move through their adventures they will encounter hurdles. Problems which pop out of the woodwork and complicate whatever predicament they are already in. While these may occur as natural consequences of the story, they will also be caused by the Players and Dealer playing the game. When they are caused this way they are known as Complications and Cataclysms, based on what caused them and their effects.

## Complications
When the Dealer exceeds their maximum hand size they first discard down to their normal hand size, as a Player would. Once they have returned to their normal hand size a Complication occurs. A Complication is a modifier to the current story scenario which complicated the situation for the Players. In combat this often is activated through an enemy ability. Outside of combat the Dealer may do any number of things based on the situation the players are in. Perhaps they are attempting to escape a burning building but a complication causes one of the exits to collapse, maybe a tree falls, suddenly blocking their path in the road, or the party might even be ambushed by enemy combatants and Combat begins.



## Cataclysms
While a Complication is a simple modifier to an existing scenario, a Cataclysm is far more devastating. The Dealer should come to the game with four Cataclysms prepared, one of which is randomly invoked when the Library runs out of Cards. The Dealer must assign each Cataclysm a unique suit and save the list for when the Library is emptied.
When the Library is emptied the game is paused as several events occur. Firstly, both the Dealer and Player play areas are reset. The Pile and The Void are shuffled back into The Library. All Cards in a Hand are unaffected. After the Library is reset the Dealer plays the top Card of the Library directly onto their Pile and uses it to determine which of the four Cataclysms they have prepared occurs. Whichever suit is played invokes the corresponding Cataclysm. That Cataclysm then immediately occurs. Often, this is not something immediately known to the Party however regardless of whether they can directly observe the Cataclysm or not every Player Character feels an unmistakably bad sensation travel down their spine as destiny moves out of their favor.
Cataclysms are events which greatly affect the Party’s journey. The scope and scale of the actual effect depends on the story being told and the goals of the party. For example, if the Party is at a high level and attempting to save the life of a sickly king a Cataclysm occurring may lead to the king’s immediate passing or some political move from his opponents.  Another example from a lower level of Players might be if the Party is attempting to collect a Roc egg, when the Cataclysm occurs the egg hatches or the mother returns to the nest.
Cataclysms need not be inherently negative, but they should always change the trajectory the Party is moving along. When a Cataclysm is invoked the Dealer should immediately replace it with a new one, so that the list of possible Cataclysms has an option for every Suit. Some Dealers may even elect to replace all of the Cataclysms based on the new situation the Party is in.
